# Covid19-simple
 
The rapid spread of COVID-19 is posing ever-experienced threats to our social, economic and health systems. The whole world is fighting a battle of uncertainty and chaos combined with untraceable death tolls. One of the most prominent challenges is predicting and describing the deaths caused by the virus. Some governments seem to inform the public poorly on the main drivers of deaths, masking the real threat and risk of this virus. Spain is a prime example of this issue. As Spaniards, we have decided to conduct a study to try to understand the main drivers of death and main groups at risk. To do so, we compiled a series of data from the ‘Ministerio de Sanidad’ (Health Ministry). The data we decided to use is starting exactly two weeks after official government lockdown (March 16th, 2020), from March 30th, 2020 to April 27th, 2020. We chose to do this to avoid having any carry-over effects from pre-lockdown cases and trying to get the most stable (invariable) context possible. This source gives us a daily update on the total number of Deaths, Confirmed Cases, people that have been Hospitalized, and people that have been put in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Moreover, it gives us information on the Age Range and Gender of the people. Hence, for solving our problem, we will investigate what the effects of these variables (Confirmed Cases, Hospitalized, ICU, Age, Gender, and Days since lockdown) are on the total death count in the selected range of dates and hopefully draw some conclusions on what factors significantly affect and explain the number of deaths. We fit this data to a multiple regression model to consider the significance of each variable in explaining deaths over time. Moreover, we conducted an analysis of variance on the differences of average death rates based on age and gender to get a closer look at the susceptibility of each of these categories to the virus.   


The purpose of our study lies in understanding the factors that are important to death tolls in Spain as well as what groups are most at risk from contracting the virus. Our main scientific questions are 1) To understand what variables explain these deaths tolls, and to a further extent to quantify the effect of those variables, and 2) To find what groups are most at risk, and what factors put these groups at risk. We aim to ultimately to see if the variables included in our model provide an effective explanation of the questions in hand by interpreting them using the methods presented in the methods and materials section. 

To build models, import the .csv file into R studio, and run the code.

includes MASS, car, and tseries libraries.